In the previous video, we already calculate
the best prefix we can use for 12 PC,
and we also already determine which IP we will
use, which is 172.16.10.0,
and the prefix is /28.
Now in this video, we are going to calculate
the Total IP and Subnetmask
But before continue watching this video,
make sure that you already try to calculate by your self.
If don’t, pause the video now, and try to
calculate by your self first.
But if you have done, let’s continue to
this video.
Okay now let’s calculate the Total IP.
The formula is 2 to the power of 32 minus
by the prefix, in this case, the prefix is /28
32 minus 28 is 4, so 2 to the power of
4.
The result is 16.
So the total IP for prefix /28 is 16.
Next we are going to calculate subnetmask.
The formula is 256 minus by total IP.
In this case the total IP is 16, so 256 minus
16, the result is 240.
Remember that this number will replace the
last number in the subnetmask.
So the subnetmask for prefix /28 is 255.255.255.240.
Okay now we have successfully calculate the
total IP and the subnetmak.
In the next video we are going to calculate
Network IP and Broadcast IP.
Thankyou for watching and see you on the next
video!